four three two all the way from Tucson
Arizona dr. Wilde how are you sir
I am good thanks for doing this man I
appreciate it pleasure you come highly
recommended by many human beings that I
know well I'm glad to hear it how do you
how do you get such a fine reputation
well I've been doing the same things for
a long time just putting one foot ahead
of the other and saying what I know to
be true and and pushing bachi
everybody likes macho who doesn't like
matcha tea this is your stuff yeah but
you know a lot of people now have only
tasted really bad much about okay
enlighten me with you know it's powdered
tea and it's very very finely powdered
and it's very labor-intensive to prepare
and it's got such a huge surface area
that it oxidizes very quickly so if it's
not properly packed and stored it loses
its brilliant green color it turns
yellow green or grey green it gets
bitter and loses its taste and I gotta
say most of the matcha that I see served
in this country is of that sort and many
have never had the good stuff what's the
benefits of matcha I know there's first
of all it's beautiful I mean I've never
seen a green color like that it's just
amazing and the flavor is amazing but
it's the only preparation of tea in
which the whole leaf is consumed and and
it's grown under special conditions the
leaves are shaded deep shade for the
last three weeks before harvest so the
in response that the leaves produce more
chlorophyll more antioxidants more the
good stuff so it's got you know much
more of the things you want and this has
like a pop top like Pringles yeah is
that so the matcha it's got to stay
fresh and after you open it you want to
keep in the freezer and yep you got it
freezing you should sift it so it
doesn't form lumps and then you whisk it
with that traditional bamboo whisk or
you buy a little electric whisker and
you can whisk it in hot water or cold
water and it's very yummy and what what
what does it do for you like what's the
good well you've got it's got caffeine
of course so you get stimulated by it
but it's also got l-theanine which is
this relaxant compound that modifies the
effect of caffeine and produces a state
of relaxed alertness so it doesn't have
the jangling effect of coffee right and
you're getting all of these antioxidant
benefits that are well-documented tea
anyway I love it it's a great thing
anytime you get one of these little
whisks it's cool it's like a real bamboo
made from one piece of bamboo
it's a miracle of Japanese craftsmanship
it's beautiful
and it's beautiful so how often you
drink this stuff I have a bowl of it
every morning and so yea I'm sometimes I
have a glass of iced matcha later in the
day especially in warm weather
you just a matcha fiend I love it it's a
good thing I first tasted it when I was
17 I was an exchange student in Japan in
1959 I lived with a family outside of
Tokyo we had no language in common and
on the second night I was there the
mother took me next door to her
neighbors who practice tea ceremony and
they did this thing for me and I was
fascinated by that whisk and the color
of the matcha and I thought it was great
you know I never thought I'd be able to
get it over here
yeah well so you you import this stuff
yourself I started a company called
matcha curry we've got the URL matcha
calm and I went to Japan to you G which
is a little town outside of Kyoto where
which is the center of the best tea
production in Japan and I sourced really
good matcha you know there are many
grades in matcha the most the highest
are too expensive to use for everyday
used it really yeah I mean phenomics
like truffles or yeah yeah really
expensive so you I've tried to find the
best matcha that is affordable and make
it available to people here so like the
highest level stuff how much would it
cost for a cup of tea hard to estimate
for a cup you know possibly there's a
preparation called thick tea in Japan
where they used three times the amount
of powder hmm and probably one bowl that
stuff we just shared by several people I
don't know it could be a hundred dollars
a bowl
woah yeah really yeah tea yeah why why
did it catch on in Japan like that it's
always been you know it has been in
Japan for a very long time and this
powdered tea preparation was originally
taken up by Zen monks to help them stay
awake during long hours and meditation
it was also associated with samurai and
became the tea ceremony developed around
that is there anything that is similar
to it is like your vomit a or guarana or
any other well these are all town
they're all caffeine plants but in my
experience tea I think in this primarily
because of that l-theanine content mmm
the effect is mellower of caffeine so
you get stimulated you get alert but it
doesn't have the jangling effect of a
lot of these other caffeine beverages
mm-hmm do you drink regular coffee as
well no I've never drunk coffee Wow
I think I was turned off because my
parents when I was going up drank really
strong black coffee with no sugar cream
I couldn't imagine what people would
savages yeah those people there were
different people did you grow up in a
northern climate I grew up in
Philadelphia yeah see it's when it's
cold outside enough people they drink
that black coffee huh makes you angry
the world yeah
dark black burnt coffee I like bright
green shining Masha it isn't it
interesting that things that are good
for you many things that are good for
you like bell peppers or something like
that they have a beautiful color to the
well you know all these the health
benefits of fruits and vegetables a lot
of them have to do with these pigments
and the pigments the plants produce
they're part of their own defensive
system and they do good things in us and
one piece of advice that I often give
people is you should try to eat across
the color spectrum every day think about
you know what did you eat today that was
read what was purple what was green what
was right all of these have different
benefits is that a scientific
perspective absolutely really yeah these
are categories of phytochemicals or
protective phytonutrients and a lot of
are these pigments that give fruits and
vegetables their bright colors do you
think the people should vary those
colors and in a given day or I think I
think as much as you can across any day
try to eat across the color spectrum
that's a good thing to aim for ok so
just just get as many of them as in ya
can
yeah yeah so do you take this approach
with fruits with with all sorts of
different things yeah yeah brightly
colored stuff is good do you eat meat or
chai down on fish and vegetables just
fish investing yeah
now when you we did one of the things
I'm super concerned with and I've been
more concerned with the more I pay
attention to it its sustainability when
it comes to fish absolutely it seems
like especially ocean fish we're you
know human beings are just terrible
monsters you know there's a famous
in this country sylvia earle who was the
woman that held a record for the deepest
dive and she came up to me at a meeting
once and pleaded with me not to
recommend that people eat fish she said
there just aren't gonna be any in the
future and that's probably true you know
probably the future is gonna be farmed
fish and that can be done in a
responsible way you know you can get the
good guides one is put out by the
Monterey aquarium you can get a wallet
card that lists that lists fish and
shellfish and rates them both by
toxicity and sustainability mmm and
that's a good guide to follow yeah
mollusks see mollusks I die you yeah I
eat I like oysters and scallops I eat
them what did what it's led you to not
eat chicken or fish or beef rather it's
been a long time and let's see I was I
think 28 and I was interested in yoga
and people that I knew we're doing yoga
had become vegetarian and there's a
friends of mine that had become
vegetarian I thought well I'll just try
it for a little while and it agreed with
me
I didn't eat fish for a number of years
and I found that made trout
international travel very difficult
especially to Japan and and then I was
reading about all the research and good
stuff and fish and I started eating fish
and that that way of eating reason with
you really well yeah it is a thing agree
with you thing right yeah really
dependent upon the person's very
individual so you know it's hard to give
blanket rules except I have no problem
telling people to stay away from refined
processed and manufactured food that's
the bad stuff yeah that's a really good
clear thing that everybody can kind of
apply in their life but as far as like
what is gonna work for you there's a lot
of trial and error involved absolutely
you gotta do experiments pay attention
and see what works for you
ya know you practice what would you how
would you call it integrative medicine
yeah well how would you define that well
it's medicine of the future and you know
and the short answer in the future short
answer is it's the intelligent
combination of conventional and
alternative medicine but really it's
it's a system that focuses on the body's
ability to heal itself that looks at
people as whole persons not just
physical bodies that takes account of
all aspects of lifestyle and
understanding health and illness values
the practitioner
in relationship and makes use of all
therapies no matter where they come from
that show reasonable evidence of
efficacy and are not going to hurt
people hmm so I am absolutely convinced
this is the way out of the healthcare
crisis I've been training doctors and
other health professionals in it for
many years now now when you say the
body's ability to heal itself how would
you accentuate that with this to me is
the thing that's most missing from
medical education I I think the only
time I heard the word healing used in
medical school was in the and wound
healing which in my first year course
and histology to me the most marvelous
thing about our bodies is that they have
the capacity to heal themselves you get
a cut you can watch it heal and that
happens throughout the body you know the
DNA molecule this is just a big molecule
on the border of life and non-life it
has within it the ability to know in
quotes when it's been injured of a
cosmic ray knocks a part of it out
instantly it begins to manufacture
repair enzymes that that duplicate the
missing piece and paste it in and you
can see that same thing at any level of
biological organization and to me that's
where good medicine should start that
the body has within it the ability to
maintain equilibrium heal itself now
knowing that the body has this ability
what what do you do to accentuate that
well if when I listen to a patient and
hear their story at the back of my mind
I'm thinking why is healing not
happening here but what can I do from
outside that can facilitate that I can't
put it into somebody but I can help it
along by either of supplying energy
missing materials remove obstacles to it
you know like you have a wound that
doesn't heal maybe there's a foreign
body in it you remove that and heals now
when you have people that come to you
that have issues like say if someone
comes to you and they have a back issue
yeah I got a little bit of lower back
pain do you approach that from in terms
of like how they're eating how they're
living their lifestyle first I would
question them about lifestyle for sure
but you know I'm a great follower of a
man who died recently named John sore
know who and you know about his work
sure he has some great books mind over
back pain healing back pain and his main
belief which I totally agree with is
that the
majority of back pain is muscle spasm
which originates in the mind hmm and it
may localize at an area of physical
injury but the the injury is not the
cause of it you can live with a slipped
disc and have no pain you look at x-rays
of how do you define slip though what
does that mean well this Jing yet multi
ended bulging or herniated that does not
necessarily cause pain and unless
there's associated neurological symptoms
you don't want to do anything about that
it's unless it's pressing on exactly
right now
John Sarno's idea was that it's a lot of
stress and anxiety and a lot of
different psychological factors Ryan and
his he I'm sure he was some kind of
incredible healer he required that
people who came to him come to to
evening lectures that he gave that's all
many people who did that lost their back
pain forever just listening to him so
other people have had that happen just
reading his book yeah I've read a little
bit of its you know I've had like
legitimate injuries so whenever I hear
someone say oh it's all in you know it
no it's not all in your head it's in
your head and your law and your box in
your head and your muscles and then the
this problem of muscle spasm which shuts
off blood supply and it's a vicious
cycle
that'll localize at an area you have had
physical injury but the pain is not
coming from the injury it's coming from
muscle spasm and that's controlled by
greatly influenced by the mind so when
you when your back is like it seizes up
that is a muscle spasm and that's
incredibly painful and it's located in
the area of the injury so it confuse you
in thinking it's the injury that's
causing you pain what's and that leads
people into getting physical
interventions that may not be necessary
yeah I'm a big believer in waiting
especially with spinal stab solutely
absolutely always want to fuse you and
cut you and you look at here's another
interesting thing you can look at x-rays
of people's spines that look so horrible
you can't imagine that they can move and
they have no nothing no symptoms and you
can look at other x-rays that look
perfect and people are disabled by pain
so there's a very low correlation
between physical findings and subjective
experience now what is SAR no recommend
really recommends going about your
business go No yeah ignoring it going
about your business and if possible try
to figure out you know what what message
you know your mind is sending down there
but basically it's reassurance that
it'll go away on its own so when he does
these lectures and he has people cure
ISM of it is just he just reassuring
them that everything's no explaining
this process of hand he calls a tension
Myositis syndrome and he explains the
mechanism of how it works
one friend of mine he was in his late
20s I played about a basketball had a
very serious herniated disc he was
within hours of having Neurological
Surgery spinal surgery and I yelled at
him to read this book and cease our news
in New York and he said I don't believe
any of that's all bullshit and I said go
go see him so he went to Sam I went to
the evening lectures thought this was
nonsense went home was having dinner and
realized his back pain was gone never
had surgery really no I there's got to
be something to that right there's
something there's something to the
placebo effect all right
so if there if that is a real thing if
you can convince your body that it's got
the medicine that it needs and starts to
heal even though there's no medicine
there's got to be something that is
working against you as well with the
wrong mindset right look it's funny to
me to hear people rediscovering the
placebo effect now I wrote a book in
1983 called health and healing I had two
chapters and they're on placebos and
what I wrote is that the the greatest
problem is that we you know when we talk
about placebos it's in phrases like how
do you know that's not just a placebo
effect the most interesting word there
is just right or we have to rule out the
placebo effect we should be rolling it
in man that's the meat of medicine
that's pure healing from within mediated
by belief what mixed up with the direct
effects of treatment that's what you
want to make happen more the time it
just is a mindfuck for a lot of people
because they're like how am i tricking
myself into getting better why can't I
just do it because that must have
something to do with the structure of
the brain that the part of the brain in
which our will is isn't doesn't connect
directly to the machinery of the body to
move autonomic nervous system so you
have to find some way of getting around
that one way is to project the leaf onto
something external and then let
work for you yeah but that's so strange
that the mind works that way it would
seem like wouldn't it be an evolutionary
advantage just have it at access you
know like sure that'd be nice but that's
the same thing you know it's a similar
problem too
why can't you just get high without
taking a drug the high is in your brain
not in the drug the drug is a trigger
that releases it why can't we just sit
down say well I'm gonna be high for the
next 10 minutes
it's the same thing we don't have access
to those controls it just seems like
that one though healing yeah I'm getting
better that one seems like it's
something that we should as a culture
concentrate on yeah for sure what we
really concentrate on is actual medicine
but one way to concentrate that is by
giving people greater confidence in
their body's ability to do that and
doctors have great power to do that
because patients project a lot of belief
on them right I've had many patients
over the years who said that the most
important thing I did for them was that
I was the only doctor who told them they
could get better
I mean astonishing mmm yeah
is it because doctors are just seeing
too many patients in they're overwhelmed
and they got legal bills and they have I
think some I've thought about this a lot
and I yeah there's also the negative
side of this I've seen what there's
something called medical hexing in which
doctors say things that actually
interfere with healing or caused people
to get worse and I think a lot of this
is done unconsciously so here's one of
my thoughts in there training doctors
see a very skewed sample of sick people
they see very sick people in hospitals
and in that group Healing is less likely
to happen but if you look at the total
spectrum of illness the vast majority of
things get better on their own so I
think you know observing in yourself
wound healing is a good one to start
with to get greater confidence in your
body's ability to do things that's
really valuable so but this obviously
you're not talking about catastrophic
injuries you're just talking about
general wellness I think even in the
case of catastrophic injury this stuff
operates I worked a lot with
hypnotherapists over the years and one
of the one of my colleagues did a lot of
work in training paramedics to be really
careful about what you say around
unconscious people who have been
massively injured
you know when the if a paramedic takes
an automobile accident victim and
they're putting them in says this one's
a goner that is a bad thing you know the
unconscious mind hears that on and on
the other hand you say something
opposite to a person you can see cases
where you can stop bleeding in
unconscious people severely injured just
by giving them suggestions whoa yeah so
when you're saying someone's a goner you
trigger stress or you trigger
helplessness like what have a medically
trained person tell you that you're not
gonna live that's it that's a curse yeah
it's a reflex how strange is it that
sometimes your life is hanging on the
border of you believing you're gonna be
okay and you believe in you're not gonna
be oh so you want to be very careful
about you know whose hands you place
yourself in yes you never want to stay
in treatment with a doctor who thinks
you can't get better a negative doctor
yeah
well doctors are just like every other
right occupation there's people that are
really good at it and are really
concentrated and focused and there's
people that are half-ass tonight well
the ones I train through our University
of Arizona Center for Integrative
Medicine get it you know we're putting
out we've graduated about 1,600
physicians now from very intensive
training they're in practice all over
the country teaching other people is a
good thing now when you say integrative
medicine when they're in practice are
they essentially general practitioner no
we've trained people from all
specialties any specialty you can name
we've trained them so orthopedic
surgeons and neurologists dermatologists
anything you can whatever does yeah and
so you try to tend to look at them we
teach them all the things they didn't
get in medical school nutrition
mind-body interactions strengths and
weaknesses of alternative medicine
herbal medicine all that like say
someone comes to you and maybe they have
a bad case of psoriasis yeah autoimmune
issue like that prime prime target for
mind-body medicine for traditional
Chinese medicine which often works well
and in that dietary changed put people
on an anti-inflammatory diet use of
natural products that reduce
inflammation so there's a wide range of
things to choose from and this does not
reject conventional treatment you know
we may use conventional medication but
if you do I recommend using the lowest
dose to the least potent agent start off
with that and you can ramp off if you
need to
a lot of people and me I'm definitely
guilty of this they hear terms like
holistic or Eastern medicine or Chinese
medicine to go bullshit right well I
have a good bullshit detector too and so
I'm really careful about what I you know
accept and what I don't what what do you
not buy into like when you see your
bullshit detector like what where you
alright I'll give you an example I've
you know I've I'm not I can't see any
basis for crystal healing bro I got a
crystal in my pocket right now exactly
alright well too bad how about the
colonic irrigation people yeah tell you
tell you that they see you know
watermelon seeds coming out and you
haven't eaten a watermelon in months
that's bullshit the the lining of the GI
tract fluffed off and is regenerated
every 24 hours there's no way that
things can get encrusted there yeah
that's a weird one the colonic thing
because your body has all this natural
bacteria that you're supposed to keep in
there right not only keeping there we're
finding out that that's like more and
more a really important determinant of
everything of general health of mental
health - fascinating
now whose idea was it to start doing
those colonics that must go way back
that's kind of like you know a key idea
yeah pump some water up there yeah see
what's up yeah and you have to stand
there
now it gets it's addictive - I see
people get addicted to this yes yeah so
one of all the things I won't go further
adieu my wife had done once she was
describing it to me I'm like yeah I want
to pass some ladies looking at the two
and telling you what's going on in there
like ladies look like shit right it
start as early as 1500 BC evers pop
papyrus an ancient Egyptian medical
document described the many benefits of
colon cleansing in ancient times the
practice of cleansing the colon was
administered in a river by using a
hollow Reed to induce water to flow into
the rectum you don't want to drink
downstream of that yeah and and you know
there's no need to do this what you want
to do is make sure that things are going
through in the right direction
yeah regularly and it cleans itself
that's not supposed to do it right yeah
yeah another big one I hear all these
people that talk about detox
detoxification
and sell all these products the body has
many natural methods of purifying itself
in getting rid of things it doesn't want
one is through sweating
one is through breathing one is through
urination
one is through colonic elimination the
liver has an incredible capacity to
detoxify it can take you know you put
something into your body the liver
within seconds of seeing a compound that
has never seen before can begin making a
specific enzyme to take that apart and
get rid of it
Wow and you can amputate half of the
liver and it can regenerate within 36
hours what yes liver is amazing 36 hours
yeah it's so I thought when you gave
someone like half your liver if there's
like a liver transplant issue that it
took a long time I know generate really
quickly and there's insan' there's a
natural product that you can take that
most doctors don't learn about called
milk thistle yeah we heard of that that
revs up liver metabolism so these are
all simple ways to increase but the
first rule of detoxification I'm sure
you can guess you stop putting toxic
things in uh-huh
cut it off at the path and let it let
the body get you know purifies oh yeah
well what do you do when someone's a
cigarette smoker you tell them to set a
date to quit set a date that's the most
important thing because each attempt it
doesn't matter if you succeed it's
making the attempt to quit goes into a
reservoir of motivation that one day
will be full enough that it's easy and
this by the way happy life happens with
heroin addicts happens with cigarette
addicts I've seen many people lifelong
cigarette addicts struggle give it up
came back one day they wake up and they
look at stain fingers or a dirty ashtray
and they don't want to do it anymore and
it's an easy there's no struggle
same thing with heroin addicts so it's
has to do with motivation you can't put
that into another person and all you can
do is arrange circumstances that maybe
it'll happen so the most important thing
is to tell people to set a date to quit
and it doesn't matter if they how long
they stick but you're saying there's
there's actually some strength to be
gained from failed attempts yes it's
making the attempt that you get credit
for really yeah interesting yeah so the
more like
if you're a drunk and you keep falling
off the wagon if you just keep making
these attempts yes
no can't really so there's something
ramps up in your mind yeah it makes it
more feasible for you to quit well yes
and when it when it happens there's no
struggle it's not it not it's not an
issue just you don't wanna do it anymore
now what do you do when people come to
you and they're on antidepressants well
I have a book called spontaneous
happiness which is about emotional
wellness as a lot there about
antidepressants first of all it don't
work so well you know that's very
sometimes they work sometimes it's hard
to distinguish them from placebos right
you know the popular ones the SSRIs
yeah and now because they don't work so
well you know what doctors do they add
one they added a psychotic drug yeah
horrifying these are like four major
mental illness they're not things you
just add on to make the other depressant
work better we've talked about that one
ad nauseam on this podcast flood because
it turned out to be the most prescribed
drug America I can't believe it that's
justice family well the word is that 25
percent of women between 40 and 50 are
on antidepressants and 10 percent of
adults in the in the country alright no
here's another that's a crazy number
well first of all the pharmaceutical
companies have done a great job of
convincing people that ordinary states
of sadness are problems of brain
biochemistry that you have to be treated
with a drug we're not supposed to be
happy all the time right secondly
there's a big problem with a lot of the
medications that we use and
antidepressants are a good example most
of the medications we use are
counteractive you know they oppose some
process in the bar so when you do that
the body pushes back against it that's
called homeostasis you know an easy
example you can relate to is if you have
a stuffed up nose you spray a drug in it
that decongest you miraculous right you
can breathe and depending on which drug
you use two hours four hours at last but
when it wears off you have rebound
congestion that's worse if you use
another dose of the drug then very easy
to slide in Jamie very easy to slide
into a state of dependence on it same
thing happens with many of these drugs
antidepressants they raise serotonin
levels
neural Junction neural Junction so what
is the body gonna do if you forced an
increase in serotonin it's gonna make
less serotonin and drop serotonin
receptors so if you stay in one of these
for any length of time when you get off
it you're gonna be in worse shape than
you were to begin with and this is now
has a medical name that's called tardive
dispersion length at mood due to the
drug so the drug actually prolongs or
intensifies the depression you know
maybe okay for very short term use of
very severe depression but these are not
things you want to go on and stay on for
length of time what's fascinating to me
is want to talk to people that are on
them that want to talk to you like
they're on some cancer medication or
they're on you know something that cures
polio yeah like they make it seem like
you're insensitive to the possibility
that there's other solutions right and
there are many other solutions we have
really good evidence for the
antidepressant effect of physical
activity yes both to prevent and treat
yeah we have very good evidence for
supplemental fish oil for omega-3 fatty
acids to permit a suti DS well oh and
the microbiome looks like it's involved
in our mental states as well so you know
there's so many different ways of guess
CBD for sure
so again gets back to information and it
gets back to in an integrative approach
and not just relying on a single thing
like a pharmaceutical treatment yeah
I've talked to intelligent people that
are on SSRIs in one form or another and
even ones that have struggled we're on
one for a while and it stopped working
and then they tried another one and
they're compounding ones and they're on
this weird sort of chemical
rollercoaster and they reject any
possible notion that there's other
alternatives especially when you bring
up the exercise one right I bring up the
exercise one they go all this fucking
meatheads exercise we just stop I'm like
I'm telling you we did this thing with
my friends called sober October and what
we did is we no alcohol no anything for
the month of October but also we did
this fitness challenge and we got real
carried away and we're all competing
against each other with this heart rate
out so we're working out three hours
four hours a day was crazy but what was
interesting about it to me was not just
that your body sort of adapts when you
force it to work out that many hours but
that your
mood is phenomenal yeah I felt so good
yeah and I was telling everybody if you
could take what I like I don't feel that
good right now
I mean I feel great but I don't feel as
good as I did during October because I
was working out four hours a day it was
if you could get that in pill form you
would take it everyday if there was no
side effects because it literally
removed anxiety all the internal chatter
all the negative chatter it was gone
everything seemed amazing true and there
are side effects of physical activity
are great you know it revs up immune
function improves digestion sleep all
that you mentioned anxiety the the by
far in a way the most effective
treatment I found for anxiety is simple
a simple breathing technique no
regulating the breath I've seen this
work for the most extreme forms of panic
disorder and the drugs that we use for
anxiety are the worst the
benzodiazepines highly addictive mess
with your mind yeah I have a good friend
who has an issue with anxiety medication
and he takes it all the time and when he
does take it
apparently it has that rebound effect
exactly right he gets horribly anxious
well these are handed out like candy and
nobody warns people how addictive they
are it's a worse addiction than an
opiate addiction it's sanic yeah really
yeah yep why I did not know that harder
to get off of than opioids Wow now how
do you feel about psychedelic
interventions when it comes to
addictions like it seems like we're
hearing more about that I know you have
a background in that as well
well we're especially hearing about
iboga and ibogaine this is the African
psychedelic yeah and there are clinics
and people using this that claim great
success I don't have first-hand
experience I only know what I've heard
and what I've talked to people mean but
sounds good and I think most of the
psychedelics are so non-toxic so safe
and in the right hands I think there's
many possibilities for you know good
outcomes yeah they've also had some
pretty good results with cigarette
cessation right yep
with not just at bogo but even with
psilocybin yeah apparently they had they
did a study where they show the
difference between someone taking
psilocybin to try to
quit smoking cigarettes and some really
large number of people I think it was in
the neighborhood of 80% quit and then
over the course of X amount of years
they were still at 60% that's only 20%
of those people would come back that's
great but with other methods the the the
number was much smaller somewhere in the
range of 20 Oh 15% after six years a lot
of them just went back to it huh what
are you making the micro dosing
phenomenon this is pretty astounding to
see this why you want to medicate every
day no I'm just joking around I think I
know people who have experienced some
pretty severe benefits of it especially
people that weren't doing so good
health-wise yeah and you know we're just
really kind of feeling down and
depressed Nelson the outlook radically
changed particularly psilocybin micro
dosing I know a lot of you that we were
doing that yeah same I have a lot of
hope that Oregon becomes the first state
to sounds like it's closed yeah to
legalize psilocybin that'd be a big one
it would be gigantic and I think once we
realized that no one's dying and a lot
of people are getting helped and a lot
of people that are terminal you know are
having some really amazing alleviation
of anxiety and an understanding that
it's gonna be okay and just I think
between friends and just that just the
camaraderie it sort of when you have
these group experiences together like
there's some incredible benefits to that
in terms of like reinforcing community
and civilization the way we feel about
each other now aside from the
psychological emotional benefits I think
you would be fascinated by some of the
things that I've observed and written
about of real physical benefits of
psychedelics and I'll just tell you a
couple I when I was in my late 20s I did
a lot of experiments was in the 70s with
LSD mostly with LSD
I had a lifelong allergy to cats if a
cat got near me my eyes would itch my
nose would run if a cat licked me I'd
get highs or it licked me so I always
you know avoided them didn't
me so I took LSD with a group of friends
on a spring day Livia Virginia fabulous
you know I was outside running around
having a lot of fun and in the middle of
the cat jumped into my lap and I had a
moment of like trying to defend myself
and I thought this is silly you know and
I relaxed played with the cat had no
allergic reaction and never did ever
after instant disappearance of an
allergy that had been there all my life
what would be the physiological
mechanism for something well this
clearly that's a very profound mind-body
interaction now we know that allergies
are influenced by that because you can
show a person allergic to roses a
plastic rose and they'll have an allergy
so that's so there's a learned component
to allergy that can be unlearned but
instead of yeah interesting now all
right this is even more dramatic maybe a
year later same thing it was LSD in the
spring I had also grown up with very
fair skin and was told I couldn't get
tan and we used to go down to the Jersey
Shore I can't remember I remember
innumerable times you know gets getting
second-degree burns sheets of skin
peeling off Noxzema at night you know we
didn't have sunscreen in those days
right so I just accepted that so I was
you know I can't get tan so again high
on LSD lying out naked in my great woods
in my home in Virginia and the Sun was
up there and I thought this is
ridiculous you know I should not be
afraid of the Sun the next day I got tan
and I have ever since well that's it a
little more and I'm not quite sure the
mechanism there but it's pretty amazing
when you're outside for though because
if you're a burn I was out in good time
you know I would I wouldn't normally
have yeah at least I would have had my
usual reaction but my skin got tan had
never had in my life so what do you
suggesting happened again you know there
must be a way in which the nervous
system influences melanocytes which are
the you know the cell the pigment cells
in the body that can either extend their
you know projections with pigment
granules so the nervous system controls
that in the mind connects the nervous
system but what about someone who's like
ridiculously fair like what about
someone who lives in Scotland well see
what I would do is in when doctor while
cycling clinic opens I would have like
an open well we'll see the
there'll be an allergy program right you
go in on the first day you take a full
dose of something and you're exposed to
the allergen and you know magic happens
and then you come in for ten sessions
with a decreasing dose and at some point
you're not getting you're just getting a
placebo and you don't know when that is
and people are trained to lose their
allergies oh hey you do the same thing
with Sun tanning maybe not with people
from Scotland because they've got fewer
pigments though yeah but I wouldn't roll
it out I'll tell you one more okay I'm
also from this period I told you I was
playing with yoga there was one posture
I couldn't do the plow were you lying
your back and try to touch your toes
behind your head yeah I got to where I
could get my toes to a foot from the
floor and I had excruciating pain in my
neck and I as much as I tried that I
made no progress so I was on the verge
of giving up I thought I was too old was
28 so again on an LSD state my body was
feeling totally elastic I thought to try
that
so I'm lowering my feet I thought I had
a foot to go and they touched the ground
I couldn't believe I've raised it
lowered oh wow fantastic the next day I
tried to do it I got within a foot of
the ground had excruciating pain in my
neck but now I knew it was possible
before that I didn't know it was
possible so knowing it was possible I
was motivated to keep at it and in a few
weeks I was able to do it if I had not
had that experience I would have given
up so I think this is the magic of these
things they can show you possibilities
they don't necessarily teach you how to
how to maintain them but they can show
you the things are possible you'd never
believe what doesn't even seem like it
was just showing you a possibility it
was actually showing you capability yes
you were capable of moving in a way that
you didn't think you were exactly for
right and it was because of your own
tension and worried you probably learned
patterns of tension that had built up on
my life and maybe some because of the
conscious or the psychedelic state
rather you're some alleviation of
tension my mind was out of the way right
yeah hmm well you do you definitely
sense that with marijuana particularly
edible marijuana you can really get good
stretching in with edible marijuana it's
almost like you I mean I hate to use
certain terms to just like trigger
people's bullshit alarms but there's a
you you can
you can feel more of the muscle more of
what's what it's doing right whereas you
know I'm I've been involved in martial
arts and athletics not my life so I have
a good awareness of my body but it's way
better when I yeah metal edible
marijuana like I feel I understand like
I can practice moves better like a
certain like kicking techniques I'm
better if I'm more in tune with how
everything's working together whereas
sometimes I can do it if I'm sober but
it's uh I'm almost like there's a
prophylactic between me and my body
there's a numbness to it that gets
removed by edible marijuana one other
I'm fascinated by this was with MDMA I
was I lived in a ranch outside of Tucson
and I had pathways that had you know
sort of large gravel and I could not
walk on that barefoot it really hurt my
feet and you know if I stood in them
yeah might you'd see Denton my feet on
MDMA I was able to like dance on those
stones no pain but the interesting
things there were no marks on my feet so
the pain is easy to figure out how that
happens but right what's happening that
you know you don't get a dent I mean it
seems to me if your mind is out of the
way maybe little muscles there can are
free to press back with just the amount
of force to neutralize the pressure hmm
it's like if your mind is not
interfering I think the body has amazing
capabilities well I definitely think you
can mindfuck yourself right now you can
definitely think oh god this is you can
start thinking it's worse than it is
yeah and if you can relax
well what often times there's many
situations where you relax and things
aren't nearly as bad as you are making
them happy so that could yeah yeah some
I'm with you on everything except at an
experienced it that's one of those
things like Bigfoot like when you just
keep it to yourself you see Bigfoot
you're supposed to just go I'm not gonna
explain I'm not gonna keep that to
myself because I want you know when I
when people tell me things that I have
no experience of I'm always willing to
entertain the possibility but then I got
to experience it for myself I'm willing
to entertain it depend
upon who I'm talking to right cuz
there's some guy out there and you will
entertain
yes ability after possibility yes if you
die you realize you have one big dr.
Seuss book you know so people are just
crazy you know we have to accept that
true yeah there's there's no doubt about
it but I I am absolutely aware that
there's some component there's something
about the mind and the way the mind
interacts with matter and with life yep
that has a profound effect on your body
and it would be really nice if we were
all better at controlling that one of
the insights that I've had in
psychedelic states is that everything is
conscious that consciousness permeates
everything that you know like I feel
whatever and me that my consciousness is
also in rocks and in plants and animals
that there's some universal something
out there and it's there are two you
know really different ways of looking at
reality one is the materialist one which
of the consciousness is a product of
brain biochemistry and electricity and
that is dominant in science today the
other is that the brain is a receiving
apparatus for consciousness and that
consciousness is primary
maybe existed before matter may be
organized matter into forms that are
more and more able to experience
themselves I don't know I don't think
there's a way to prove one or the other
it's just that for me the conscious as
the primary one is more fun and makes
life more interesting I'm sure you're
familiar with Rupert Sheldrake oh yeah
he's good friend very very interesting
guy he has an idea that everything has
memory right he believes that that this
would be like the reason I guess why
some people would not want to live in a
haunted house all right they would think
that if something was murdered in the
house that it would retain some memory
of these atrocities and that you would
somehow or another interact with that if
you were in that house so like spaces
like my dad is not a very he's not a
woowoo kind of guy yeah but he went to
Gettysburg uh-huh and he was telling me
that when he was at Gettysburg that it
just he felt profound sadness uh-huh
he's like it just seems like it's just
in the ground like
the whole area he goes I don't know how
to describe it but I wanted to get the
fuck out of there huh like just just
being around this area where this battle
had taken place so many people had died
I said you could feel it ha
I don't know if I buy I mean but it's
not the kind of guy that know right but
that's an example where you somebody
tells you something that is experienced
I'm willing to entertain it I have to
experience in less yeah but it also
could be you know like he he got lucky
and didn't get drafted during Vietnam
and that's probably in his head that if
he did get drafted he might have died
over there and for what reason he
wouldn't experience this life yeah you
know why what is the person then
thinking about these young men that died
in the same fashion for some war that
didn't make any sense like why the fuck
are they even fighting it like who why
why is that and then having all these
people die together in this one horrible
battle in this one place and he you know
it could have been he was playing a game
on his mind but now Joe I want to talk
to you about your language why the fuck
do you swear so much no no have you read
anything about the science of swearing
no do you know that there is a science
of swearing a science yes it's pretty
interesting stuff
oh so the part of your brain that
produces swear words is not the part of
the brain that manages ordinary language
really interesting you know we have two
language centers in our left frontal
cortex mm-hmm
people that have strokes that damage
them often lose language completely but
they can still swear
so swearing is coming from somewhere
else it may be coming from the right
hemisphere but it's also coming from
deeper centers in the brain to connect
to the limbic system and the amygdala
and that in connects to the involuntary
nervous system so here's a couple
interesting facts okay
swearing is associated with sweating
increased sweating so you should be
dripping with sweat it's also
interesting swearing increases pain
tolerance and there's an interesting
experiment oh the standard way they do
pain tolerance they have people stick
their hand and a bucket of ice and water
and you see how long they can keep it
there the people who say fuck shit can
keep it there much longer than people
who are not allowed to swear
what about noises what if they just go
ah no it was swearing specifically hmm
so they've tried noises and swearing
yeah so it may be you know when you if
you're hammering a nail and hit your
thumb yeah you should use one of those
words that's a good strategy that's
interesting because I almost always do
that if I heard something especially a
finger like a slammed car door the other
day that's what that is but that's yeah
and that's interesting it's coming
there's a different part of the brain
that manages that it has different
emotional content yeah it flavours
language yes I like them I'm a big fan
of the squares I'll leave you some
papers about the science of swearing
it's interesting yeah it's very
interesting
now what if what would happen if they
were no longer taboo would the same
they'd lose various I think they'd lose
their power
Yeah right the same areas of the brain
wouldn't know I remember there was an
episode of I don't remember what
television show but it was on CBS yeah
and they have a line at the end of the
show and essentially they were saying
shit happens and there was a big deal
I'll bet it was a big deal that they
wanted to be able to say shit happen huh
and apparently they pulled this off and
they got it through and it was like a
10:00 p.m. show so it was okay and it
was 11 o'clock by the time they said
shit and I remember thinking like well
what is strange sort of like how many
people were involved in this sort of
dance like how many lawyers and
executives and who like it's very
strange very strange that this one word
would trip everybody knows the word
right it's not even that so it's kind of
a you know a kind of game we all yeah
yes so but you're saying this game is
facilitated by one specific part of the
brain and so that because like I don't
swear words are taboo words here I have
blue words an often associated with
things that we find offensive mm-hmm or
with bodily acts that freak people out
yeah so but so there's both there's a
psychological social aspect to it but
there's also a neurological aspect to it
now when the words like some for some
words for some people like I remember
when I was a kid I lived
Florida for a little bit and I said hell
once and in Florida in the 1970s hell
was a swear like yeah I don't know I
mean I came from New Jersey you know I
was in San Francisco and then also I was
in Florida I said hell and they're like
don't swear like that in this class I
was like swear the fuck are you people
talking about he said to me that was
like you guys have different swears yeah
now if you had a word that was not taboo
to you mm-hmm
would it be with that same area of your
brain I know no this is there has not
been a lot of research it hasn't been
taken seriously but that's all
interesting questions oh yeah buddy
because it some I mean if you're a
really super conservative person there's
a lot of words that are off the table
yeah but if you are far more you know
just loose with your language you could
shit this and yes goddamn it you know
that would be nothing like goddamn it
would be just like shucks yeah yeah but
to someone goddamn it would be like a
really yeah really big deal so like what
it would be different parts of the brain
would be activated mm-hmm by that versus
if you said it it would be not that big
a deal but if someone was like super
conservative and a saw even yeah more
yeah Wow yeah interesting what do you
think that that is a universal thing I
mean it seems to be univer seems to
universal another finding that came
across is that people who learn a second
language that swearing in the second
language does not have the same
emotional impact that your first
language does oh that makes sense that's
why they're so fun when you learn
Spanish swear it's like you get a free
ride yeah yeah that's that's interesting
yeah that makes sense yeah and you can
do them on television too right you can
see a lot of Spanish swears in an
english-speaking TV and everybody just
pleads ignorance do you so and does
every language yes they all have shares
every language has two words swear words
Wow Universal that is really interested
in the Asian languages yeah P and
languages all of them huh Wow huh so
that that would at least in my
brain seemed to indicate that there's
like some use for that yes well that
probably many uses one is this thing of
modulating pain what is a social bonding
you know forming some community yeah
that's how I kind of use it yeah I think
when I swear in front of people I'm
testing them out yeah like you freaking
out if I say fuck yo I can't talk to you
right you too much work right you know
you know exactly what if you're talking
to someone and every other word like wah
we're really wish you wouldn't use that
language well you there's so much work
to do here I can't
I know example Japan dance through this
garden right yeah it's um it's to me
also like I hang around with a lot of
people that swear a lot because I hang
around with professional comedians and
fighters and there's a lot of
swashbucklin freewill and type of
individuals involved in those pursuits
and now there seems that there's some
study suggesting that swearing is
becoming more frequent in our society
and I don't know it's a trend I'm not
sure anybody knows why but I mean
somebody would have been you know on the
air like you are 20 years ago that's
true yeah well that is specifically
because the internet civilization yeah
yeah but even that it's like it's it's
resisted in a lot of ways like people
are trying to figure out how to modulate
this and how to handle it and they'll
never handle it no it seems like the
genies out of the bottle right yeah I
think ultimately you find what you enjoy
and the best way to find with you what
you enjoy is people actually doing what
they want to do and then you figure it
out exactly yeah I mean that seems to be
what's happening in the world of the
internet and podcasting and stuff like
that it's also the the access right like
a person like you you could just put
together a podcast and if people find it
interesting if it resonates you could
get a hundred thousand downloads out of
nowhere like a hundred thousand if you
have a radio show a hundred thousand
people listening that's a lot of damn
people they'd be excited like hey Andrew
we got the monthlies in and you're doing
a great you got a hundred thousand
people a day they'd be like holy shit
successful business but you could be
doing that just from your office just
put together with a laptop and a
microphone and no distribution what's
in terms of like no string of executives
and gigantic corporation behind you you
don't have and nobody telling you what
you can say yeah well that's one thing
you get out of today that you never got
out of before and you know this is I've
been involved in show business for many
years but only this kind of stuff for
nine from doing this podcast and what
I've seen with this is like what's
unusual I think what resonates with
people is that there isn't anybody else
there's no group of people that's saying
Andrew could you stop saying this or
let's let's concentrate on that and if
the polls are showing that people like
this and you know you have breaks in
between what the commercials are playing
they come to you with notes and they
tell you things all that stuff just
seems to somehow or another ruin this
natural interaction that we have each
other yeah yeah now for a guy like you
the Internet is I would think that with
some of your more controversial ideas
like this is the way you could really
air them out in long-form because if you
like a lot of doctors they don't want to
open their mind to anything outside of
what their what their practice notice
yeah it means gotta be rough for you
right but I've never censored what I say
I've always put it all out there good
for you yeah I've done that all my life
but do you don't you find that it's more
not just accepted but people are more
interested in it now because of the
Internet yeah for sure
yeah absolutely because I've heard about
you for many many years but it's sort of
ramped up over the last you know decade
or so right yeah because of the internet
right because people have this but you
know I've been around it's funny when I
look at this stuff like you know all the
stuff about pot and it's like no
explosive oohs I was saying this stuff
in the 1970s you know my first book the
natural mind was published in 1972 it
argued that everybody has an innate
drive to alter their consciousness yeah
and that you know drugs are one way of
doing it
I did the first human experiments with
pot that were ever done with under
double-blind conditions what experiments
did you do I gave marijuana to people in
a laboratory in 1968 and would you test
for well we were just seeing people bet
me you couldn't do it nobody had ever
done this you know that all this
marijuana was becoming such a big thing
and nobody there were no experiments
like what what what kind of experiments
so I took like I'm the most basic stuff
I just wanted to show that you could
give it to human subjects in a lab and
get away with it because people thought
you wouldn't you know I mean in terms of
the FTC in terms of law lawsuits
everybody you know one of the things I
wanted to give it to people that never
had it before to speak so there'd be no
expectations everyone said this is
terrible you know they're gonna turn it
to heroin addicts from giving them mmm
stuff like that anyway I just wanted to
see basic stuff like does it dilate the
pupils of the eyes because cops were
busting people you know they'd say their
eyes are dilated yeah must be high in
marijuana and they'd search but
marijuana doesn't we I should we showed
doesn't dilate the pupils of the eyes
I took tested blood sugar because people
said the reason people get hungry is
because blood sugar drops has no effect
on blood sugar we showed that the you
know people who had never had marijuana
before in a lab you could show slight
decreases in performance and motor
function and cognitive function but
people who were regular users of it you
couldn't show that that they had adapted
to it yeah my take on that is that I
think the people that are not regular
users are freaking out yeah and because
they're they're normal sensations and
then I'll do it
yeah and they just don't they don't know
how to relax
right yeah I mean that's it's the big
one to me with with physical movement
cuz young they want to you know test
drivers and also J things for marijuana
I'm like this is not alcohol you're
talking about a completely different
thing if I had a choice of being a
passenger with these drivers I'll tell
you which one I would take person who
had never used marijuana had just smoked
a person who was a user of marijuana and
it just smoked but it never driven high
a person who was a user regular using
marijuana and at practice driving high
and a person with any amount of alcohol
in their system I take the third as the
best bet yes the thirds the best right
yeah that guy's a wizard I bet right
that God drives high every day yes so
he's used to it I'm not gonna show any
effect on his performance yeah it's the
experience is a novel experience and
right the if you're accustomed to it
then it's
like here we go this is my normal world
and for many people you have to learn to
get high you have to learn to associate
the subtle physical cues with the
altered state that's a common thing
people feel nothing the first time they
try it yeah you do hear that right but I
don't think they know what the fuck
they're talking about your eyes fuck
when you when you did these experiments
what did you have to clear these with
the FDA would you would not believe I'd
have to do I had to get permission from
the FDA which said that I couldn't do it
unless I first got permission from it
was the old Federal Bureau of Narcotics
which was the Treasury guys the federal
uricani said we'll give you permission
once the FDA gives you permission so
they played that off then I had to get
permission from the state of
Massachusetts from two agencies there
and there were two universities involved
Harvard University and Boston University
so coordinating all this stuff was
unbelievable and then once that all the
approvals came in I had to get the pot
and there was no legal source of it so I
Federal Bureau of Narcotics gave me
confiscated pot that they had
confiscated some case in Texas they
brought it over
they had delayed us so long I didn't
even know who had time to do the
experiments cuz I was gonna graduate
anyway they brought this stuff on a
Friday afternoon it was shit I mean it
was brown dry it looked like you've been
sitting in a warehouse for years right
so the first thing I did was roll up a
joint and smoke it no effect whatever I
called the the agent that I dealt with
and I said this stuff is no good he said
how do you know you haven't had time to
run in the experiment so I said I looked
at it under the microscope and there was
no resin on it so they grumbled and they
gave me other stuff which was passable
so but again confiscated stuff yeah
because we always used to hear when we
were kids about government we'd the
government we'd was the good weed I was
later that was later when that well when
research got going and the US the
government started a pot farm in
Mississippi my pot for research which
was much better and there was only a
handful of people that were under these
experiments correct so they made it so
difficult
mmm conduct research as they have with
psychedelics no that's slowly changing
now yeah well you know Rick Strassman
sure yeah when he was doing that book
DMT the spirit molecule and he did all
those tests with those people that was
really great
breaking stuff because you know doing it
at the University of New Mexico and
doing our clinical conditions they were
able to document the similarities
between all these peoples psychedelic
experiences and do this with government
approval yeah which I thought was really
fascinating fascinating yeah and the
fact that they did it and with the
informations out and then there's been
like very little movement in that
direction it's kind of just like okay
now we know but look everybody's fine
it's a lot of benefit do we do want to
act on this like you know it takes
decades reverent and flus what research
was done all along it was from her to
look for negative effects
ah you know nobody who wanted to look
for positive effects got permission and
funding that's interesting so you have
to kind of frame the proposal in a way
that like we're these kids are fucking
themselves up and we're gonna prove it
sir so that's changing but you know the
big stumbling block now we got to get
cannabis out of that federal schedule
yeah that's like causing a lot of
problems yeah there's been some noise
about D criminally decriminalizing it
federally which is like step one I guess
that's a big stumbling block I'll give
you one example I'm involved with a
group called Maui Wellness Group I'm the
chief science officer Maui Hawaii yeah
we got the first dispensary license and
growing operation over there oh nice
very good he's gonna go in Hawaii how is
it for medical not not for recreational
like how sick you have to be you know
it's okay the way they're allowing you
but there's their specified conditions
Hawaii's not is more uptight than a lot
of others things happening but our
licenses for Maui County which includes
Maui Molokai and lanai so people from
Molokai and lanai can come to Maui to
buy product and our dispensary but they
can't take it back because the waters
between the island or federal when they
throw it still has to cross the water oh
that's ridiculous you know that's the
water that federal that's the kind of
that's the kind of ridiculous situation
so better to be in Maui and not better
when I got to go to Maui to get high
yeah that's great what is you're really
sick like what if you have cancer or
something like that
well I live on lanai yeah well you got
to violate the law but if you have it in
lanai you're okay
so can you grow it no you can only grow
it if you have a license and the only
licenses for Maui Jesus Christ yeah we
got to change this California was really
ridiculous when they were doing medical
look you could just basically go in
there I can't sleep okay yeah it's
nothing like I had friends that had like
long elaborate excuses they planned out
like you know I was in a car accident
while 6:00 and I go to bed at night I
have these horrible dreams the only
thing that helps me is marijuana and I'm
just trying to feed my family that they
were gonna stop stop stop
okay I'm righteous crypt I just give it
to you like there was no resistance like
if you my joke was that if you can't get
a license for marijuana should probably
go to a hospital immediately she had a
real problem no man you need actual
doctors right I'll tell you a story this
this is something that bothers me no I'm
not I'm not a user of pot and I was
heavily in my earlier life a friend of
my doctor colleagues in San Francisco
sent me some samples of stuff that had
come from a medical dispensary in San
Francisco and he wanted me to try them
so one of them was a some concentrated
oil it came in a little syringe and had
a very elaborate nicely printed brochure
with it that described the use of this
for pain and that said you should start
with an amount the size of half a grain
of rice taking it orally so why it's
yeah my friends had take it at bedtime
so this is a teeny amount and actually I
probably took somewhat less because I
was afraid of getting too high um I took
it at bedtime went to sleep woke up
about an hour later in full-blown
delirium I mean visual hallucinations as
strong as I've had on LSD I couldn't get
out of bed I was you know I was in
Mobile I had burning thirst I couldn't
get up to get a glass of water I am a
friends thing and a guest house I
couldn't call for help I laid there and
it kept increasing you kept you know
over for hours it got stronger and
stronger and when is it gonna end anyway
it lasted 12 hours yeah and for about 24
hours after my equilibrium was really
long and this stuff is being I mean you
know this is and it said it said the
direction said start with this amount
and work up from there people I'm
thinking there's people you know driving
on the streets
is out there that scares me yeah there's
people that'll squirt that whole thing
in their gullet right I'm sure you know
yeah it's the edible world is a weird
world because of the the response of the
body is so much different than the
smoking it's different drug yeah you
know the long length of time it takes so
the you know it's like lighting the
firework and the fuse is down and you go
back and try to light it again and yeah
I'm sure you've heard the recording of
the police officers who stole the pot
from the kids and then ate it and then
called 911 themselves no you never heard
it's wonderful play it again because we
played too many times in this podcast
okay I'll look it up but these poor cops
the they ate pot brownies and their call
911 I think I think we're dying times
moving real slowly I think we're dead
it's so stupid it's it's it's it's good
for kids to hear because you realize
like Oh cops are just people oh all
right okay it just sounds like my
brother if my brother got high you know
it's just crazy people that get high but
it the the effect of the Edible can be
pretty pretty fucking profound in this
area in particular like Hollywood has
some preposterous THC level I don't
imagine yeah I mean they're under
different regulations now that it's
legal statewide instead of just medical
but when it was medical only you could
get these insane concoctions Stars of
Death you ever heard of a star that you
would a star a death what are those
starts at like 1,200 milligrams they
range anywhere from like two hundred
three four hundred each little star is
hundreds of milligrams and Joey would
eat like three or four of them eight
yeah he just would just throw them down
he's he's got an insane tolerance yeah
he just want you guys given all this
stuff however I am delighted to see our
society finally coming to better terms
with yes plant me to cannabis you know
the the the word cannabis is the same
word as canvas mm-hmm all canvas sails
and rope used to be made from hemp yeah
the and the species name sativa means
useful it's the useful hemp it's really
useful you know this is one plant that
hat provides an edible seed and edible
oil of high quality fiber a medicine and
an intoxicant that's a lot of ways for a
plant to be useful we have been very
stupid in our relationship with that
plan yeah the cannabis it's the
equivalent of the dog in the plant world
dogs long ago made a decision to
co-evolve with us they through their
evolutionary lot in with humans cannabis
did the same thing you can't unravel the
early botanical history of cannabis
because as far back in history as you we
go it's always associated with human
settlements so that plant wants nothing
other than to be with us and to serve us
and we have been so stupid we've let a
billion dollar interest industry and
hemp textiles go to China we've let a
million dollar industry and edible hemp
products go to Canada and we have
ignored its potential for medicine well
I'm really hoping that things are gonna
change in terms of our cultivation of
hemp um you know I'm one of the owners
of on it and we sell hemp protein and
one of the great yeah we used to get our
hemp protein from Canada yep we used to
have to get it from Canada we can then
sell it in America we couldn't grow it
here stupid well that's gonna change I'm
so hopeful it does change it is it's
fascinating also how well the propaganda
worked against it and how long even in
defiance of all the facts now I have to
tell you when I did those pot
experiments of 1968 I predicted that pot
was going to be legal in five years just
a matter of getting the truthful
information out there well it wasn't you
know people believe what they want to
believe and they don't believe what they
don't want to believe in it's rude it's
totally irrational well it's also an
really excellent example of the
contradictions in our society you know
that the the difference between
something that's accurate and something
that's perceived yep and we have this
perception of Maryland and sometimes
they have perceptions based on
experiences like you might meet some
really lazy fucked up people who smoke
pot all the time you go this is what pot
does to you also it was the associations
of
because then back then you know in the
50s 60s it was associated with Mexican
migrant workers with black jazz
musicians in the south and then with
radicals and hippies so all scary people
to mainstream you know middle-class
white society and of course all
accentuated by William Randolph Hearst
and Harry Anslinger and the reefer
madness film those are great there
anybody hasn't seen those out there it's
amazing how something that was
terrifying to someone back then it's so
silly today when you watch reefer
madness say it's really funny and at the
same time we're living with the two most
dangerous drugs that are out there with
alcohol tabacco
well how about fentanyl that wants to
wash it out of me keep ramping that one
up and looking it more and more potent
yes the idea that opioids weren't
killing people quick enough that we
needed to make some ridiculously potent
versions of it and apparently now
there's they're proving something that's
even more powerful yeah like what why
would you do that but you know on a
physiological level opioids are not that
bad for your body the worst effect of
being addicted to an opioid over time is
chronic constipation I mean that's
annoying but that's not like cirrhosis
of the liver the generation of the
nervous system but overdoses overdoses
of course that kills you by stopping
your respiration bunion but there are
many examples of people who have been
addicted to opioids who've been able to
get legal supplies and use them sensibly
they're healthy I have heard about that
when in terms of regular heroin use yep
that I had a friend who was a
longshoreman and this is like when I was
a kid he was explaining to me how this
guy that he worked with would get a bag
of heroin every day at lunch and he
would shoot it in his car and he would
just sit in his car during lunch hour
and then when the time was up he'd go
back to work I was like what he's like
he would do that every day but she's
gonna be dead in a week no no he knows
that if he knows how to take care of
himself
apparently he did he would do it all the
time right
I guess find a new vein and and figure
out how to do it and and not there's a
famous historical example that's great
there was a man named William
halstead who was a surgeon at Johns
Hopkins University in the early 1900s he
invented local anesthesia and so you
know great guy he started using cocaine
and injected self injected cocaine and
not a good thing and his you know his
behavior got really bad everything not
good so at some point his group of his
colleague kidnapped him and put him took
him on a yacht for several weeks and he
came back supposedly cured had a long
life as a very successful productive
surgeon and only after his death was it
revealed that what had happened on that
trip was that they had gotten him off
cocaine and on to intravenous morphine
for the rest of his life he was an
intravenous morphine user did not in any
way interfere with his health or
productivity I would assume that if
you're doing that every day you're gonna
run into issues with your veins
well yeah presumably he you know he knew
how to rotate around it huh I wouldn't
want to do that but there it is oh but
the point is that you know it's a whole
different game from alcohol and tobacco
yeah a whole whole different game but
problems it's this it's the social
toxicity of it it's that that that
people are buying illegal impure
materials and overdosing and so forth
that's not the the Nate pharmacological
nature of the drug what's been
disturbing to me as a person as an
observer is watching people who get
injured get hooked on it yeah it
particularly pills yeah it seems that my
good friend Brendan he had his nose
broken and it got his nose fixed and
they put him on pills and before he knew
it he was taking those pills every day
for months and months and months and his
friends eventually just took him out of
his medicine cabinet and they just made
an intervention so you know this is I
think the the opioid crisis that we've
got in this country is a fabulous
opportunity for integrative medicine
because the realization is that you
cannot manage chronic pain solely with
use of opioids right no there has to be
individualized integrative treatment
that use uses different modalities could
be everything from acupuncture yoga
mind-body stuff diet hmm and that all
state of Oregon a couple years ago
passed an integrative pain management
and
of saying that all pain chronic pain
management had to be integrative and
they listed the different modalities
they left out mind-body medicine which
to me is one of the most important yeah
the mind-body medicine though on any
sort of a report that seems like that's
one like okay what kind of but look you
know I study I'm with you yeah I studied
hypnosis I after I got out of my medical
training you know one of the most
interesting courses I ever took there's
a well-known demonstration in in the
literature on hypnosis you can take a
person deeply hypnotizes got good trance
capacity touch them with a finger that
you represent to be a piece of hot metal
and they get a blister and you can take
the same person and touch them on the
piece hot metal and tell them it's cold
and they don't get a blister wait a
minute yes well-known phenomenon this is
actually have you ever seen this yes in
real life yes so someone's taking a hot
piece of metal yes convince someone that
they're not gonna burn yeah they don't
burn yes by the way to the suntan stuff
how long do you touch him with it for
you know enough in an ordinary person
that it would burn I call bullshit I
call boy so we'll try it
I just let's try it okay under put in
and cook your hands it's it's like it's
hot if it's hot it's gonna fuck you up
no well I think if it's held there long
enough it right so look like it's one of
those things like the walking on coals -
absolutely which I've done a number of
times I'm sure but if you it's cold you
know this then that coals are not a very
good conductive heat which is why you
don't cook on bullshit because yes I'll
tell you what my experience was I the
first time I tried it I was with a group
of maybe 40 people and it was a standard
length of the fire walk was about twelve
feet it was a hot fire was mesquite it
was in my yard in Tucson and and the guy
came in it was early in the days of fire
walking and he had this long for our
thing to get people ready I was not in
the right mental state when I did it and
my experience was it felt fucking hot
and I got to the end of it the it
condensed down to like a number of
points that really burned and I had
Lister's the next day and most people
that have walked that night it looked
like they were not in the right mental
state but I saw a few people who
strolled
that look they were in some interesting
altered state so I wanted to try it
again next time I did it I shouldn't
have done it I was with a guy who was a
real jerk who thought himself as you
know he's a self-styled guru small group
it was a much shorter maybe eight foot
cooler bed of coals and I got
significant burns from that so like an
annoying guru so it really annoys no
idea you're like this guy's a jerk off
and then you're getting annoyed so
you're out of your mind set right and I
burned my feet so I said I'm not gonna
do this again and then a friend of mine
was doing some intensive workshop with
Tony Robbins and oh Christ and it was
gonna end the last day they were gonna
do try to set a record for the longest
fire walk done in America so he wanted
me to come up so I went up there I
thought I'm gonna watch I'm not gonna do
it so it was a 40-foot bed of coals and
it was really odd and and he had like a
troop of African drummers and people are
dancing and drumming it was like
midnight and people were getting in line
to walk and I said I'm not gonna do this
not gonna be my family self you know
going up there and I was right there and
he taps me on the shoulder says you're
ready it felt like walking through
crunchy croutons
there was no sensation of heat I walked
slowly I kind of wiggled my feet in the
things and when I got to the end of it I
felt so high it was like on acid I had
energy rushes through my body
I had nothing on my feet so on a much
shorter cooler walk those coals
conducted just fine and you know on this
one
it's a mind-body thing it's not about
the conductivity of the coal Tony
Robbins hitting you with some Fugazi
coals whatever I mean you could barely
get at the edge of the thing man the
heat was amazing you know the Tony
Robbins one it's what's really
interesting is recently they've
developed this issue with people trying
to take selfies while they're walking
across the coals not bringing their feet
it's become a like significant issue
because it didn't happen until like
within the last one I never heard of
that yeah I think that would get you
right out of the proper stage yeah there
was a big article about it that's a big
article about these people really
fucking their feet up well deserved yeah
you really think that you have the
ability to mitigate the amount of effect
that a fire and cold hot cold okay
don't have any proof of this in my
intuition I think what happens if your
mind is out of the way mm-hmm you can
take you can absorb energy and let it
flow through your body rather than
getting blocked in the tissues hmm where
it causes damage and I've seen this in
in other situations as well and I think
the problem is ordinarily our mind is in
the way of that and does not let the
body freely do that ooh and I think that
applies to things like getting hit
really hard heat getting hit really hard
huh what do you mean getting letting
someone hit you as hard as they can with
something that would cause damage and it
doesn't oh that's crazy no it's not I've
experienced it yeah I'm sure you have
but there are other real scientific
studies that show that nobody studied it
I'd love to study nobody studied
firewalking you know the usual
scientific explanations it seems like we
probably shouldn't talk about this until
they do do studies because it seems so
simple to do these studies and I'm not
buying it for a second I think if I hit
somebody they're gonna it's gonna
fucking hurt right if you get a while
there to punch you so much Tony Robbins
talks to the common common experience
drunks involved in car accidents don't
get injured okay but do you know why
because they're totally relaxed yes but
that has nothing to do with some altered
state of consciousness Noel's not
allowing the injury to actually get us
out of the way and their body is totally
relaxed that's the tension of falling
you you hurt yourself because you're
defending yourself here right right you
your body is better off giving in to the
on saying it's the same thing with the
fire but it can't be that's a different
thing because you're not tense it's on
this surface of your skin which is
causing the heat no I think you're
intense in your nervous system which is
not let it not able to absorb that
thermal energy us and brown we're gonna
do some studies burn you it's just I
think there's certainly you can mitigate
the sensation of pain I don't believe
that you can do anything about the
actual physiological change to a hot
piece of metal interacting with the
tissue of your skin I just think they're
like the steak does not know it's being
cooked it's just getting cooked your
gonna get cooked you are meat I just
don't I don't buy that I'll show you
some of these studies on hypnosis
there's doctors right now going yes
you've challenged Joe Rogan this is
nonsense well I believe hypnosis I do
believe that but I absolutely believe
you can achieve different states of mind
where you feel things differently you or
your concentration your relaxation is in
a different state your mind set is in a
different state I do not believe that
you can change the physiological nature
of your body's ability to absorb
punishment like a punch kick I I do and
I the same thing of absorbing the Sun
that set some studies up sorry how do we
make these tests I don't know off to
figure it out we'll talk you've been
doing this forever how do you know this
should be like you should have these
studies already done I know but this is
a significant i conversation point is if
it's proven now this is really huge and
if you could really take a hot metal rod
but right out of the fire and touch
someone's skin they're in the right
state of mind you don't burn them that
would be giant yes well I I'm telling
you you I'll send you some literature on
hypnosis that shows this condom I'm sure
someone wrote some shit down I'm sure I
want to see actual real studies all
right I want to see and I want it I mean
in this day and age there's no reason
not video tape but it's true yeah true
come on all right so my list now a lot
of stuff to do see this is a big one
though I mean because this is something
that whoo-whoo people write healers and
you know a lot of a lot of people like
to bring up and when when you press them
on it there's no evidence for it and
it's like well anecdotal evidence well
I've heard well I work with a healer and
he tells me like okay okay
do you know what the literal meaning of
anecdote is no it means unpublished in
Greek it does not mean stupid not we're
not any attention so anecdotal evidence
is often actually so and it and it
inspires you to do the experiments okay
will you go ahead do that all right you
good I'll report that hot piece of metal
on your still report back yeah and I'm
gonna go look at that burn I'll report
back to you yeah I mean I'm not saying
that anecdotal evidence is always
inaccurate it's most certainly accurate
many times sometimes sometimes yeah yeah
I mean it's just as likelihood it's not
that it is but nanoq total in of is what
gives you hypotheses the test
sure but it's just not good enough to
state I cracked especially when
something that doesn't make sense
chemically yeah physiologically it
doesn't make sense but I told you about
my experience with Sun and suntan that
doesn't make sense do you know you're
tripping your balls off and yeah and
something happened in my body that would
be interesting if that was I'm sorry
change yeah in your body's ability to
produce melanin yeah or what is it
melancholy it's how do you how do you
say aniline aside melanocytes
melanocytes so you are and they're
controlled you know they're melanocytes
are related to neurons and they're
they're influenced by nerve connections
so it seems to be perfectly possible
that mind through the nervous system
changes the behavior of melanocytes sort
of like how your body can ramp up
adrenaline and anxiety or any there also
can ramp up melanocytes yeah
that doesn't seem like outside the realm
of possibility that seems like obviously
some people when I first told it to you
you said it was outside the realm of
possibility not outside but sounds crazy
okay definitely sounds crazy but I mean
it seems like that would be something
also that would really warrant study
absolutely those poor pasty ass
motherfuckers out there on the beach
okay turning bright red like oh man I
just gotta think about the right way but
you imagine if you just told people it
was like a meditation and don't and then
you just get a nice tan yeah yeah good
thing yeah it would be a good thing now
when it comes to what we were talking
about autoimmune issues like I have I
have vitiligo you see what's on my hands
where I don't get any pigment you know
how do I fix that huh fix that my brain
you know all I can tell you is that I
would try to see if you and influenced
it through hypnosis or through guided
imagery just see if you can change it in
any way I don't know hypnosis and guided
imagery yeah there are two mind-body
techniques I think any it's worth trying
I did read once that there was this I
think it was a young man who had some
awful one of those awful wart diseases
and there was one called ichthyosis
which is like the holy lover yes
calloused hard tissue yes and it went
away
hypnosis yeah yeah yeah over time I
wrote that case too they told him
they're like his arm that one arm was
going to buy cured and it just like
completely eliminated all the warts on
that one over that yeah and they
couldn't figure out how or why and they
couldn't recreate it so the wart stuff
that's very well documented you know and
and what cures there's so many different
were cures some of them are quite funny
yeah you know you have to you have to
cut a particular plant under the full
moon and rub it and bury it blah blah
and but the wart falls off the next
morning and when you compare that to the
way we deal with warts medically we burn
them off freeze them off cut them off in
most the time we do that they grow back
in multiple clusters when they get when
the mind gets rid of them through this
method they're gone so we want to find
out how to make that more time yeah
that's real right I mean this is this is
actual real documented science yeah yeah
that is what is so interesting to me
about the placebo effect is that it is a
real thing yet your mind has this
capability of healing itself in this
very very powerful way but we don't
exactly know how to turn it on or off
right and it can do the opposite to
there's a phenomenon called voodoo death
where in societies where there
witchdoctor shamans a malevolent witch
doctor can curse a person and the person
goes home lies in bed stops eating and
over days or weeks dies whoa so what
more could you ask of in the way of a in
my body effect he put a curse on what
was the basketball team they were
talking shit about him he put a curse on
them and they couldn't win a goddamn
game I had a few
yeah he's put a curse on a few different
too he's like a real how would you say
spiritual very positive mostly like real
love oriented guy but occasionally put a
hex on a dude uh-huh and when he puts a
hex on you got a real problem on your
heart
apparently it's been very effective and
people freak out when Lil B hex ISM
little bee puts that hex on you like
damn it and then he releases the hex
haha he's lifted them he lifts the huh
and when he lifts them everything goes
back to normal
alright this is weird man this is like a
weird sock because everyone's aware when
Lil B puts a curse on you
uh-huh and when he does people are
called no I can't believe this okay like
the idea of curses like the the you know
a voodoo curse or a gypsy curse on you
that is a well that's the negative cited
and as a name it's called the nocebo
effect obnoxious rather than pleasing
yes yeah that is that's a documented
thing as well right the people that can
believe that something is wrong with
them and then they start mind yeah
fucking themselves into this terrible
state yeah and then they start screwing
things up yeah yeah here it is Kevin
Durant says I tried to listen a little B
my mind wouldn't let me do it can't
believe this guy's relevant okay bitch
Kevin Durant will never win the title
after he said Lil B is a wack rapper the
bass gods curse hashtag the bass God's
curse on Durant
and then he always signs his tweets Lil
B but it works it works
Kevin Durant is sitting home right now
thinking of the millions a little bit
mr. Cosby's on what day is one now it's
yeah one now but who could have bought a
house with all their money lost those
years a little be fucked over in the
corner
but that I mean I think the opposite is
true too so someone could put blessings
on you like there was a fighter that we
had in here the other day Deontay Wilder
he's the WBC heavyweight champion the
world and he said that from the time he
was a little boy his grandmother had him
convinced that he was like an anointed
one that he was special and that she
would always say that to his parents
like you know don't you hit him like
this one's special you know he's gonna
raise everybody up and then he turned
out to be like one of the great
heavyweight champions ever in terms of
like his record he's 40 you know at 39
knockouts and he's a phenomenally
successful fighter and in his mind he
believes that he has some like magic
property there's something to him he's a
ridiculous knockout artist to me
obviously there's a lot of physiological
aspects to that he's a big long tall guy
with crazy knockout power you can't fake
power you either have it or you don't
but he's got it and he's got this weird
confidence too and you gotta wonder how
much of them actually is operating under
this idea that his grandmother was right
about him having some magical properties
and so he goes through life is his
vision yeah
powerful yeah how you trick people into
thinking that way a whole nation full
fathers a nation full of like see that's
why that's why doctors are afraid of the
placebo effect because they think it's
tricking people keeping them yeah and
it's not it's like it's you know when
when you present a treatment to a
patient your belief in the treatment as
a practitioner catalyzes the patient's
believe them the best way I can do that
is if I give a patient something that
I've tried myself and I know from my own
experience that it works and then I can
present it in a way with my confidence
and that increases the patient's
confidence and increases the likelihood
of a favorable even controversial
therapies yes and even you know it can
example something when we when you give
a pharmaceutical drug to a patient I
think there's there's the direct effect
of the drug and then there's a halo of
belief effect and you know an
interesting phenomenon is that there's a
famous saying in medicine that you
should use a new remedy as much as
possible before it loses the
to heal and this is a common experience
that drugs work best near the time of
their introduction that's also the case
of diets as well absolutely and the
longer they're around you what I think
what happens is you know people have
faith in new things mm-hmm
so there's a big halo a placebo effect
yeah over time that shrinks and it
leaves the stuff on its own which may
not be very impressive this is often the
case when people take on a radical diet
like on opposite ends of the spectrum
whether it's a carnivore diet aware that
a lot of people swear it fixes anomalies
ails or vegan diet very similar effects
obviously very different diet exactly
yeah so it's the mind the mind the mind
is where it's at no how do we and the
big problem in science and medicine is
if we don't believe in the mind no
that's what I was saying earlier when
you were talking about mine it's not
material you know it's not that this is
the problem when you're talking about
mind-body interactions or what cures
placebo effects you're talking about a
non-material cause of a physical event
and that is not allowed in the
materialistic paradigm that dominates
science yeah when we observe a change in
the physical system the dogma is the
cause has to be physical when you talk
about a non-physical cause of a physical
event scientists too now well that's
really unfortunate because we know so
much about how attitude does shape yeah
the way your body reacts to things going
back to the Sarno stuff you know that
we're back pain it's all that stuff it's
like you know that that to me that you
can't separate the mind and body there
are two poles of the same thing well if
the placebo effect is real it is
documented yeah it's documented so
obviously something is going on with the
way you feel about things and think
about things that's having an actual
physiological effect there's something
happening to your body because the way
you're thinking about it right happening
to your body now one of the things that
has made this you know suddenly of
interest in the medical world is that we
now have these techniques like
functional MRIs yeah PET scans where we
can observe living brains and you can
show that the placebo response is
associated with particular activity in
certain brain centers that has made it
real for people that otherwise didn't
believe in it
mm yes right like there's a medically
documented there's something that you
actually get a hook into yeah you can
you could put it on a scale yes exactly
yeah what what part of the brain is
responsible for the placebo effect well
again it's probably the some of these
deep brain centers that same ones
involved in sweat and swearing you know
that the same thing it's coming from
centers that connect to emotional Reed
you know to emotion yeah
the ability to turn that on off
consciously and willingly is tricky yeah
you know another thing I looked at over
the years was Healing shrines in the
world like Lord mm-hmm the there's two
interesting facts about that you know
the over the years the Catholic Church
has accepted very few healings as
genuine that are have like full medical
documentation and some of them are quite
spectacular like miraculous
disappearance of widely disseminated
cancer no native of Lourdes has ever
been cured and the chances that a person
was going to be healed there explained
Lord this is a place as a place in
France where you know a you know a child
saw visions of the Virgin Mary and
anyway it's grown up into a there's a
grotto and you know it's now a major
Catholic shrine and it has a reputation
for healing and thousands and thousands
of people over the years have gone there
so as I said very you know there's
relatively few reported healings that
have been documented medically but no
native of Luard has ever been healed and
the there's something called the Lord
phenomenon which is fascinating that the
chances that a person is going to be
healed at Lourdes or a place like that
is directly proportional to the length
of the journey travel - yeah I have
heard that so the length of the journey
is an investment of belief right so
you're projecting belief onto the plate
place and then you get it back yeah that
that seems like that could essentially
work with any very very difficult
absolution quest type absolute
experience that you're going on you're
looking for something and you'd have to
earn it
yeah after your to be fully invested
there'll be something going on in the
mind that has you convinced this is a
real effect but the power is not in the
place the powers and you know
here hmm and you're projecting it onto
that but man wouldn't be better if you
didn't have to go all the way yeah it's
great how do you get that going like if
someone said to you okay man I don't
want to go to Lourdes but what should I
do
well one is that you could imagine
you're going to Lourdes and that's
taking advantage of this function of
visualization that's why these therapies
like guided imagery seem to work you can
imagine something and have it become
real guided imagery now is there a
specific you know if there's like
transcendental medication there's Buddha
you know this is a formal it's a formal
system of therapy that people are
trained in where you you know you sit
with a practitioner and they help you
explore your mental imagery and may give
you specific kinds of images to work
with pending on the condition that
you're dealing with
I would think knowing the fact that we
we have real evidence that placebo
effect works why isn't there more study
done to try or more thought and more
more people that are trying to emphasize
this ability of the terian it's we're up
against this problem that in the
dominant paradigm in science in medicine
we don't believe in non-physical
causation of physical events but that
doesn't jive with me because we do
believe in the placebo effects like
everybody says that oh it's just a
placebo right you said that earlier
right people always say that but it
still works right but but we're not
using it right we should be using it
should be use them it's the meat of
medicine we want to make it happen more
at the time it's just that we're so
flawed in our approach it's really
interesting that's like the the human
body and the human mind is such an
incredibly complicated biological entity
right our ability to consciously be
aware of our our life our position in
the world our mortality the the
insignificance of us in the greater
scale all those things are like they're
right now all the time but I don't have
any user's manual right exactly we have
this incredible machine that can invent
nuclear bombs and satellites and there's
no users manual no users manual for the
mind or the
especially not in how to manage the body
with the mind
nothing now they figured out this wide
open if you're on your own
yeah few people have got you got to like
find these masters right so if you think
about the 300 and whatever million
people we have in this country how many
of those people could guide you towards
a proper integration of mind and body
and a positive way of interfacing with
reality that's beneficial to you
physically mentally spiritually not many
there a dozen not many with all these
human beings and essentially most of
them trying to improve in some way
nothing people that fail on diets boy
they'd like to get skinny even people
that you know fail at school why I wish
I was smart enough to graduate I wish I
had enough discipline people people want
to do better huh so there's this vast
need for coaching that would lead to
improvement yet almost I mean nothing to
speak of and certainly not nothing
large-scale in any city that has this
approach where look we are gonna teach
you how to better engage with the the
material world around you and the the
better engage with reality itself that's
gonna leave you more spiritually
physically emotionally fulfilled like
that that seems like that would be a big
business it would know one way to teach
this stuff is by example that if a
person exemplifies you know good
mind-body functioning they can inspire
that in another person that seems like
maybe the only way when one strategy
that I if I can do this if I have a
patient if I can introduce that patient
to someone who's had their condition is
now better that is a very powerful way
to up their belief in the possibility
getting better yeah that makes sense
which is why people love user
testimonials right but you but better if
you actually meet the person and show
hope see for yourself
yeah but user testimonials are so huge
for that reason you know I was skeptical
at first but then I tried it boy I call
he was kept it'll just like me yeah it's
to me when I look at the giant number of
people that are unhappy
and displaced and just seem like they're
left out of society I was listening to
oh it was Johann Hari on Sam Harris's
podcast they were talking about the
number of people that are happy with
what they do for a living
mmm-hmm happy with what they do every
day and it was somewhere around 13% long
yeah and then the number of people that
were just like it's okay I just do it
like I don't hate it but I don't love it
that was like in the 60% and then the
rest of the people fucking hated what
they did so the vast majority some
ungodly number you know like 87% of
people hate what they're doing oh how
sad all right if don't hate it they
don't want to be doing it and they do it
all the time yeah that's crazy you know
that that has to have a profound effect
on all aspects of your life right I like
what I do what you seem like you do I do
you have a twinkle in your eye we talked
about it but I mean it's got to give you
some satisfaction for sure right yeah
help all these people absolutely and
also to see a lot of the things that
I've you know believed for so long
becoming more mainstream it's good yeah
yeah and much more so now than ever
before much more so than ever before
yeah when you were doing those studies
in the 1960s and you thought that
marijuana is gonna be legal in five
years how could you have ever first of
all how could you have ever thought of
the Internet right that's the big right
the distribution of information sure
yeah that's that's really the big one
the decentralized distribution of
information and that's that by the way
in medicine has real it's one of the
things that's most leveled the playing
field between doctors and patients mhm
you know it sort of ended the
authoritarian paternalistic kind of
medicine that was when I grew up well
it's it is a problem right a patient
comes they think they know everything
yeah but I have seen I have seen many
many patients who have gotten exactly
the information they needed and were
able to take it to the doctor who didn't
know about it I mean I think on the
whole it's a really good thing oh yeah
for sure no no for sure I'm saying just
like I get how doctors be worn out by it
all right you know listen to me I went
to school this is what it is well it's
good for
to have to let go of that yeah well I
there's no way you could know everything
true I mean especially doctors they must
know that they have a specialty for a
reason because the human body's so
insanely complicated there's no way
anybody is a general specialist of every
single aspect of medicine but we need
more generalists one of the problems we
got too many specialists and there's
yeah so someone like would you think of
a generalist as someone who sort of
guides you towards various specialists
I'm a general practitioner I'm very
proud of it
there's a good data showing that states
that have a higher number of prime of
primary care physicians family doctors
have better medical outcomes than
patients with a high percentage of
specialists there are some specialties
pay more so we should be changing that
we should be providing financial
incentives for people to go into general
medicine yeah it also makes sense to
that by the time you get to a specialist
usually you're really messed up you know
right if you're going to a back
specialist you might have like a real
situation it's been bothering you for a
long time very whereas you go know a
general practitioner for a check-up this
is my you know by annual checkup you
just kind of give you the once-over
making sure everything's okay how you
sleep and I eat and drinking smoking
cigarettes what's going on just give get
a sense of you but they do they have
enough time it's not a big issue
how much time do you spend when you when
you work with patients I take an hour
and in our clinics we do 90 minutes on
the first session that's got to be nice
90 minutes you can get to know some yeah
but if you're getting in and out of that
office in 10 minutes he's just here's a
prescription get out of here you know
next you know the there's been Studies
on the amount of time in a medical
encounter when a patient starts to talk
how soon the doctor interrupts the
patient you have any guess what that is
now 13 seconds you're right really yeah
13 seconds I use the same number of
people that are happy with what they do
ah there you go that's pretty good 13
seconds Wow well oh my foot hurts and
I've been Wow okay here you go shut the
fuck up
take this opium yeah it's have you ever
eaten in a true Food Kitchen what does
that mean it's a restaurant true Food
Kitchen no I don't know what that is
well
it's a restaurant that I started I was
now 25 of them no kidding got to in 2a
now la and where are they one in
Pasadena where I'm gonna go after the
show and oh I'm in Pasadena tonight all
right you want to go to the comedy club
all right what time
I'll be there for dinner if you want to
come over there True Food Kitchen yeah
it's great it's my LA you know it's
delicious healthy food it's a wonderful
food that conforms the good nutritional
principles it's anti-inflammatory diet
and there's something for everyone
there's like meat there's vegan options
vegetarian gluten-free it's very
delicious food true food Kattan it's
become an incredibly successful
restaurant concept well that's a great
idea to be able to serve people things
that you know for a fact they're going
to be healthy and nutritious and not
just taste good but good for you but
primarily it's food that looks great and
tastes great it happens to conform to
good nutritional science yeah that is
possible and that's a lot of people
think you have to eat fried chicken and
right well come in there enjoy it I
would love to try it all right
definitely how do you eat for the most
part you said you eat fish and you eat
through the I try to grow a lot of my
own food I love fresh stuff out of the
garden I like to cook and I invent
recipes which is you know a lot of the
recipes from the restaurant are mine oh
great
so I I like simple um you know simple
quick preparations that are really good
do you fast at all I have been
experimenting with intermittent fasting
and I haven't found the regimen that
works exactly right for me but I'm
fascinated by it I do a teen or a 16 and
8 and how often do you do that I try to
do it four days a week uh-huh
you know it's sometimes it's difficult
when I travel yeah but even then I'm
more accustomed to it than ever before
so if you know I eat dinner at eight
o'clock at night it's it's not hard to
wait okay yeah sound hard my body's just
really used to it now how long you been
doing it about a year or so maybe a
little bit more than that yeah I think
you know that makes a lot of sense and
yeah then you do experiment what I
haven't done that I really have been
thinking a lot about doing is doing a
multiple day fast just a water fast I've
done that where the longest I've done it
for is three days yeah how was that the
first day was difficult
or actually the second day was difficult
the third day fabulous you know I know
energized high my mind working very
clear the problem that I have is how do
you come off it
no because it's like very easy to slide
into eating you know to pizza Krispy
Kremes yeah exactly yeah I think there's
protocols in terms of like small amounts
of fruit right like right when you're
coming out yeah blueberries which that's
to me that was to me was the tricky part
was transitioning off it yeah I get it
especially you feel like you earned it I
didn't eat for three days you want that
pizza right one of the things I found
when I was doing it having a bowl of
matcha I I'm normally my pattern is I
want to eat as soon as I get up so that
those morning hours are hard for me but
if I have you know have my matcha that
helps do you exercise
I do I swim mostly I walk every day I
find that once my body got used to
fasted exercise you know it became much
much easier uh-huh
yeah what in it became like before I
would almost have anxiety attached to it
like I can't work out without food I
have to eat uh-huh and then when I
started doing the intermittent fast and
then I started doing fasted exercise I
think it was I'm sure I prefer if you
probably measured me in terms of like
you did a bunch of like weight lifting
exercises and measured my output I
probably would be able to lift more
weights if I had some fruit first uh-huh
I'm pretty sure I'd have a little bit
more energy measurable but it's not
difficult to have a vigorous workout in
the morning when your fasted you just
got to get used to it mm-hmm
you know I often do either hot yoga or
run the first thing in the morning
weightlifting seems to be a bit of an
issue weight weight lifting I don't like
I like to eat something before I lift
weights
well yeah but swimming about you it was
fast it swing yeah I have I thought
that's fine yeah a problem with it now
why did you get off the pot you know it
changed for me in I really used it
regularly in my 20s and 30s and when I
first started using
it was great I mean I was like hilarious
highs laughing you know right a lot of
then then it turned after several years
more introspective you know and an
interesting like creative my writing for
helping writing stuff like that and then
gradually it transitioned into making me
groggy and not doing much for me and for
you know it took me a while to separate
myself from it but in the last year's of
it it was groggy and sedated I think I
changed my body changed that's
interesting have you ever tried
different strains I have first I don't
like the smoke because you know I'm
really into breathing and I just given
smoke in the way long right I've tried
vaping I don't I just don't like the
effect of it these days aping yeah I
just like the effect you know I don't
like oral feels you know it's too strong
for me yeah well when you're talking
about that half of a half a grain of
sand yeah putting you on Pluto I imagine
that that would be like acid yeah it was
felt like acid yeah well boy I'll tell
you for me the most profound and intense
experience I ever have in the sensory
deprivation tank are edible marijuana
mmm edible marijuana in that tank that
combination is just whoa huh a real
strong dose because have you done the
tank at all yeah but not with not with
pot not with psychedelics and that's
long time ago yeah well even sober you
have some pretty out trippy experiences
while you're in there but there's
something about the what I experienced
with edible marijuana is that when you
close your eyes you get a lot of really
cool visuals like I've had it before
when I take pot and then get on a plane
like I'll eat right right when I park my
car at the airport or when I'm leaving
the house then it kicks in when you're
on the plane like right
closing your eyes something about
closing your eyes the you have like
really brightly covered colored visuals
oftentimes and I get that a lot inside
the tank huh with with marijuana huh
I had that with that real strong stuff I
definitely a lot of visual stuff yeah
that's what's weird about it right it's
like it does become a psychedelic
yes especially at high dose in why are
they making that stuff so strong
Catarina trice unnecessary weight how
many milligrams did they say it was
I don't we this ever wasn't much because
they've got these damn Chiba choose
they're like 500 milligrams for one
little cake one little thing like that
back 500 milligrams like why do you need
that because you started out with 10 and
worked your way up to 500 I guess
there's a tolerance issue with a lot of
folks right yeah yeah yeah do you um do
you regularly meditate or I do yeah
every morning what kind of meditation I
first practice Zen and then I took some
of the pasta training and now I you know
I get up I sit down I do my breathing
routine and then I just try to focus on
body sensations and sounds in the room
and when I'm caught up in my thoughts I
just bring my attention back to my
breathing mm-hmm but you know for me I
think that the sitting sitting
meditation that's fine but I think the
goal is to be able to carry that state
in all of your activities right so for
me cooking is meditative you know
chopping vegetables working with knives
and that's very meditative for me so
when do you think that when you're
having this meditation whether it's Zen
or whatever that you're you're resetting
the way you're gonna go through life for
the rest of the day hopefully I mean
goals not just a know the guys to carry
that state throughout the day well you
kind of have a responsibility don't you
agree like you're a guy who's teaching
people how to live a more productive
healthier life you kind of have a
responsibility to live your own
productive health yeah I better right
yeah I wouldn't feel right doing that if
I didn't practice it it's slippery right
yeah but I don't tell people to do
things that I don't do myself
do you when you have some thoughts about
things like something like iboga would
you be interested in trying it yourself
or yeah yeah I haven't had an
opportunity to do it it's supposed to be
ruthlessly introspective uh-huh I've
never done it either
but I've had I've had friends who had
pill problems so you know who did it and
cured them but they said the ride is
just 24 hours of like what in the fuck
am i doing and then once it's over you
have zero desire no the way that it's
used traditionally in Africa the route
it's these tribes the user that's
hunters take it and they remain
motionless for many hours on it mmm
animals come close I mean I'd always
fascinated me hmm yeah that's
fascinating yeah I wonder if taking it
from the root I wonder if they have a if
it's they're getting the exact same
experiences they're getting in these
clinics I don't know yeah it's just to
me in terms of efficacy if you look at
the recidivism the rates of relapse
rather yeah I mean their survival
yeah it's crazy right how was successful
that stuff it yeah and yet you know
nobody wants to talk about that these
are all these clinics like it's crazy
how many rehab clinics there are they we
need you for six months yeah really
Mexico says they kill it all in three
days I'd go down there and get into an
iboga clinic yeah I want to find out
more about it yeah
on my list but listen man thanks for
being here thanks thanks for information
that you've shared over the years I want
you to do studies I'm burning yourself
well and getting punched I will report
back to will and tell people how they
can find out about you what is your
website social medias my website is dr.
wild calm dr w e IL comm and also check
out integrative medicine arizona edu
which is my academic website see the
range of that and matcha calm for high
quality matcha and we have a special
offer for your fans if you go to matcha
calm /pages /mediabox
to
[Music]